---
title: "Quantum Group - BEC Lab"
layout: textlay
excerpt: "Quantum Group -- Bose-Einstein Condensate Laboratory"
sitemap: false
permalink: /bec/
---

# Bose-Einstein Condensate Laboratory

Cold atom experiments worldwide are currently playing a leading role in our explorations of   the quantum world. The exquisite level of control and high-resolution imaging, give us a direct probe on systems of many atoms in the quantum regime. This has revealed a wealth of new phenomena that are under vigorous theoretical and experimental study. We are therefore very happy to announce that in spring 2021 we will embark on our own cold atom adventure, as we are installing a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) experiment.  

A BEC consists of order 10.000 (or more) atoms that are cooled to temperatures less than a microKelvin and can be trapped and manipulated with magnets and lasers. Our system, for which we are working together with the company ColdQuanta, will use Rubidium 87 atoms. The final potential that traps the cooled atoms will be a combination of a tight magnetic trap (\sim kHZ trapping frequencies), generated by an atom chip, and a flexible optical trap, generated by a two-axis AOD laser projection system. The latter will allow us to 'paint' 2D potentials on the atom cloud, with a projected space-time resolution of \sim 1 micron, 5 \microseconds.

This will effectively turn our BEC into a quantum simulator, allowing for many exciting experimental routes, probing different aspects and regimes of quantum many body physics. We plan experiments that look at non-equilibrium evolution, thereby also pushing towards effective 1D situations for which the atom interactions can play a dominant role. We will also study analogue gravity applications, in which the BEC is used to simulate quantum field theory on curved space-times. Furthermore we want to realize several quantum information theoretic protocols and will explore possible new entanglement based approaches to quantum tomography.

